Inspiration:

My dad is a die hard Red Sox fan, and he watches more baseball than anyone else I know.  This year (2025) has been frustrating to watch the Red Sox for him because the Red Sox have begun
to call up their extremely talented prospects and as a whole they haven't had the success he was expecting.  As he was watching the games he noticed that there have been much more roll over
groundouts this year, and he thought this might have something to do with it.  We both wondered if MLB teams had begun to tell hitters to try to intentionally pull more pitches, a philosophy we both disagree with. 
Our idea was bolstered during the 2024-2025 offseason as the Red Sox signed Alex Bregman partly because of his ability to pull the ball and the Astros signed Isaac Paredes largely because he was so good at pulling 
the ball.  I've always enjoyed analyzing hitting mechanics and the Red Sox will always hold a special place in my heart, I still remember watching Koji Uehara closing out Game 6 of the 2013 World Series, so I 
thought this would be a great topic for research.


Results:

Before I begin discussing the results of this study, I think it is important to mention the scope of my data.  For the file "HD.py" I used data from the 2024 and 2025 seasons because I am
using the whole league, I wanted the batting averages and slugging percentages to be as recent as possible while also having enough sample size to be accurate.  Another important note for both python files is that 
the pitches used are located in what Baseball Savant calls the heart and shadow of the zone.  I did this because I wanted the swings used in the study to be competitive swings.  Finally, the data on the Red Sox
players used in "RS.py" is exclusively from 2025 this is mostly due to the fact that I wanted to include the prospects that have made their debut this year.  When you run "HD.py" displayed are aa series of graphs
displaying left handed and right handed batting averages and slugging percentage based on the pitch location and batted ball location.  I could go into an extreme amount of detail about what these graphs could 
indicate, but that is not why I made the graphs so I will keep my explanation of the graphs at this: in general hitters have better success hitting the ball where its pitched (inside pitch = pull, middle pitch = up
the middle, outside pitch = opposite).  There are a few instances where this is not as clear cut, but as a whole it remains true, especially for left handed hitters.  Now if you run the "RS.py" file you will see 
the batting average and sluggingpercentage splits of pulled balls for both left handed and right handed hitters based on the location of the pitch (inside or outside).  Although some players have pulled the ball 
better than others you can see from the average columns that as a whole the Red Sox do better offensively when they pull inside and middle pitches and don't pull outside pitches.  You can also see from the output 
that the Red Sox are pulling a significant amount of pitches relative to the number of inside pitches they are seeing.  

Discussion:

Now, while I think that this study does show something significant that could be leading to some of the offensive struggles in Boston, I also think this may be a slight indication of how baseball has changed. 
I am a believer in the dominance of pitching in the MLB and hitters who hit for high averages are getting rarer by the year.  The Red Sox inclination to pull the ball could be a sign of them wanting to take 
advantage of their short corners ballpark with pull side power, but I believe they have taken it too far.  I don't think their problem is wanting to pull the ball, but rather trying too hard to pull the ball 
and selecting bad pitches to do so with.  If you look at the output of "HD.py" one more time you can see that when both left handed and right handed hitters get pitches down the middle they actually do better 
pulling the ball than when they hit it up the middle.  This in supplement to the other data I have shared indicates to me that the Red Sox are trying to pull too many outside pitches.  I'm no expert in hitting
philosophy, but to me this should be a topic of discussion for the team.  I think the most pronounced example of this on the Red Sox is rookie Marcelo Mayer.  Although he has had few plate appearances, you can 
see that on outside pitches Mayer is literally hitting 0 as opposed to inside pitches where he hits .600.  This is further demonstrated in the slugging percentage as well, in fact the slugging percentage is
impacted more than the batting average based on the location and hit direction.  If you look a Rafaela Ceddanne's numbers you can see that he actually has a higher batting averages on pulled outside pitches
versus pulled inside pitches.  However, where the true disparity lies in the slugging percentage.  Ceddanne's ability to hit for power greatly diminishes whenever he tries to pull outside pitches.  This remains 
true for almost every Red Sox hitter.  This is ultimately where my problem lies because it is a contradiction.  I stated earlier that the Red Sox might be trying to take advantage of their short corners ball park
by pulling the ball more, but they are working against that philosophy.  By having their players trying to pull the ball more frequently they are reducing the amount of power the player is hitting for.  If the
Red Sox intend to continue with this approach I think it calls for a serious change to their hitting approach.  The Red Sox should be hunting more middle and inside pitches and taking the outside ones.  The good
news is that statistically, the Red Sox should see at least one middle or inside pitch per at bat.  You can see from the team pitch percentage columns in "RS.py" that the Red Sox see about 50% of their pitches go
down the middle and roughly 25% of their pitches on the edges.  To me this shows that if the Red Sox hitters can refine their approach we could see a significant uptick in their team slugging percentage and in 
turn their winning percentage.
